Hello and welcome back to the course and machine learning today we will finally find out about the colonel
trick.
So let's get started.
So here we got the Galveston or the radial basis function kernel and those are two interchangeable terms.
And now let's have a look at this function.
So K stands for kernel and it's the function function applied to two vectors.
The X Factor so this is a just a some sort of point in our dataset and Al stands for Landmark.
I mean there might be several landmarks but we're going to we're not going to worry about either.
For now we're just going to look at this as a landmark and then that equals to an exponent in the power
of minus the the double vertical lines mean the distance between X and the landmark squared divided
by two sigma squared.
So I know this might all seem very confusing right now and you're probably wondering.
Carol this makes no sense whatsoever.
What does this even mean.
Well let's explore this through a visual example.
So here I've got an image which represents this particular function for a specific Sigma for a specific
landmark.
But this is what it looks like in a.
When you visualize it.
And so what's happening here is we've got al the Landmark is actually in the middle of this plane.
So in the middle of this two dimensional space.
Let's imagine this is the X corner.
This is the y coordinate in the middle we've got 00 and that's where the Landmark is actually located.
And then the vertical here the vertical axis represents the result that we get when we calculate this
for every other point on this x y axis on this x y field or plane.
If we take any other point than this the results of this calculation so let's say we put that point
in here and then recalculate the distance to the landmark and then we square it divided by two sigma
squared where sigma is some fixed parameter that we decided upon earlier.
Then we take the negative of that and then we put the exponent into that power.
Then we get this resolved that's what it will look like.
So let's go through this step by step let's look at the tip of this observation is right in the middle
of this whole x y plane.
And so if you project that it back onto the plane and the bottom you'll have the kernel that's that
or not the kernel that's the landmark.
We're going to call it the landmark that's where the middle of this bottom square is and that's from
where we're measuring the distance.
So k this distance x minus l i this distance every squaring here will be measured from that landmark.
So let's take a point and look at it.
So there is a point somewhere on our plane.
It's quite far away from the landmark.
There is a distance.
So we're taking that distance.
We're squaring the distance dividing it by two sigma squared.
Taking negative and then we want to see what the result will be.
And so how can we confirm that this visualization is actually indeed aligned with this formula.
So it's pretty simple.
The distance here.
Let's assume it's quite large right.
So it's quite a large distance compared to some other points that are closer to the landmark.
So basically the distance here is a large number.
And if we take a large number and we square it's right we get an even larger number and then we divide
by two sigma squared it's still assuming it's still a large number.
Again depends on the Sigma and we'll find out what the role of sigma for the done in this tutorial.
But assuming this is still a very large number.
So you've got a very large number here and then you sing my negative.
You're making a negative very large but negative numbers so if you take an exponent as you put it into
a power of very negative a very large negative number.
So each of the power of one let's say minus a million.
Right.
And just for argument's sake or minus a thousand What does that give us that gives us a value.
Very close to zero.
So it's is basically equivalent to saying 1 divided by E to the power of 1000.
And that is a very very small number so that basically means when you're far away from the Landmark
or from the center you get pretty much zero on the vertical axis which lies before image here.
Now let's have a look at another example so this point is actually closer to the landmark.
And here if we measure the distance it's quite small.
So now if you take a small number you square it and you still have a small number divided by square
you still have a small number so you look at the power of minus a small number so let's say e to a power
of minus.
I don't know like a point or each of the power of minus one for example or each of the pyo part of mine
is 0 0 0 point 1.
So that basically means.
So this number is close to zero.
It's as you get closer to the landmark then this number gets closer to zero.
So and we know that each to the power of minus zero minus zero point zero one zero point 0 0 0 1 and
so on.
Basically as you get close to zero E2 we get closer to E to the power of zero.
And each of the power of 0 is 1.
So basically as you get closer to your landmark this number here this number here gets smaller as well
as more.
And this whole right partner here converges to one.
So it becomes bigger bigger bigger and bigger and you climb this hill up to the top where you get to
one in the very landmark itself.
So when you exactly hit on the latter you hit landmark do you get to the top.
And so that is just a quick way of checking that this image is indeed the kernel function that we're
looking at.
And what is this all useful why do we need this.
Well because we're going to use this kernel function to separate our data set to build that decision
boundary so let's have a look there is our two dimensional space.
Right.
And there's our x1 x2.
Just like we had here x1 x2.
And now what are we going to do is we're going to take the Landmark and put it somewhere in our in or
among them our dataset.
And there's a whole methodology on how the machine learning algorithm when you implement it.
Our Python or any other language how it does it.
And we're not going to go into detail on that because we just focus on the intuition.
But basically there's a way to find an optimal placement for these landmarks.
And so Lamarque is placed and next what happens is the distance as you see here the circle the circumference
around this
kernel function is actually projected here onto our viz..
So what this circumference allows us to do is it allows us to take all of the points that are within
that circumference and have them like assign them a value of above zero so anything outside the circumference.
All of this blue stuff.
So basically all these red points they'll get a value of zero.
Right.
If you apply this function or a value value very very close to zero if that had any point falls within
the circumference.
Based on this function it'll get a value of above zero and that is how we can separate the two clauses
the green from the red just if we pick the right Sigma.
So here we know that Sigma actually.
Well we don't know that yet but what's is role is that it defines how wide this circumference is.
So if you increase sigma the circumference will increase like this picture in shape but it just it should
change at the circumference here would increase and it would take more space up.
Or if you decrease sigma the circumference will decrease and therefore you'll take the less points and
so basically by finding the right Sigma you can set up the correct kernel function to assign 0 values
to all of the points that you don't want in your classification and values above zero to the point that
you do want in your classification.
And that will allow you to separate the two.
That will allow you to classify each one and that in essence is a kernel trick we have created a decision
boundary we followed actually going into a higher dimensional space without having to project all of
our or create a mapping function that's going to take us two dimensional space and do all that can be
taken.
The point is we're not doing that can be stations in the higher dimensional space we're still doing
the computations in the low dimensional space.
Yes we have this visual representation that involves a higher dimensional space but at the same time
if you look at the attentional part we were just calculating this formula.
And then we're saying if this is great or if this is equal to zero then assign you know Clauss red if
it's greater or equal to is greater than zero then assign Cl. green.
If we if you look at the computer is actually happening and still in the two dimensional space and that's
called the kernel tree.
So all of a sudden you can adjust your decision boundary and and it's on SR and moreover you find yourself
being able to solve much harder much more complex problems like this for example.
So here is a much it's a very simplified formula.
But if you take two kernel function and you just add them up in reality you have to be coefficients
Tetteh here today here and then another terror before.
So they have to be confession's with these.
So if the kernel for months a bit more complex than that.
But in simple terms if you take two kernel functions and you just add them up then because the the value
of this function if let's say this is kernel or this is your landmark want because the value of the
function when you get further away it becomes zero right.
They don't really interfere.
So as you move away from this landmark So this landmark will only encapsulate all of these points around
here and then as you move away this will be zero everywhere everywhere else including in these points.
But then this one will be nonzero close to this landmark.
And so if you just add them up you will get non-zero values for exactly all of those points.
And so therefore you can draw a non-linear decision boundary which even looks like this.
And the formula here would be the point is assigned to the green Clauss when this equation is greater
than zero and the point is assigned to read close.
When this equation is equal to zero.
Now again this is a very simplified example of reality.
This is a bit different it's greater or equal to zero.
This is less than zero and that's because we have the coefficients and it is a bit more of a complex
more complex mathematics behind it.
But we don't really need to go into those steps.
The point is that we understand here that we can create this non-linear very complex decision boundary
without having to go into a higher dimensional space.
Everything is still happening in those same dimensions simply because we're applying the kernel functions
and that is why this method is called the kernel trick.
I hope you enjoyed this explanation and I look forward to seeing you next time.
Until then happy analyzing